Add 2023-04-06 minutes (#98)
solid/notifications-panel: meetings/2023-04-06.md

* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes
* SC

### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback or interest to implement. Links to products/projects and demos welcome.
* eP: JM, is there something we can look in the context of authz?

> * JM: Authn/z of webooks, was going to implement capability URLs. Technique to "kick the can down" the road for another way of doing authz. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JM: Authn/z of webooks, was going to implement capability URLs. Technique to "kick the can down the road" for another way of doing authz. 
```

* JM: There are implementations around doing ... how does a NotificationReceiver know that a notification came from a NotificationSender? As it is currently in CSS, the NS is generating a token using the IdP that comes with CSS. This is not a good solution for a few reasons. 1) we can't guarantee that a NS has access to an IdP. 2) Overly complicated as Solid-OIDC is designed around DPOP.

> * JM: eP made the case that a decent solution is capability URLs. cURLs does not require discussion over poken generation or authn. Creating an agreement between NS and NR. Probably more accurately the subscriber. In the future we might have authn scheme that generates tokens. Right now, the plan for implementation work to have capability URLs. That's where I am right now. eP can correct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JM: eP made the case that a decent solution is capability URLs. cURLs does not require discussion over token generation or authn. Creating an agreement between NS and NR. Probably more accurately, the subscriber. In the future, we might have authn scheme that generates tokens. Right now, the plan for implementation work to have capability URLs. That's where I am right now. eP can correct.
```

* eP: Seems accurate. We can defer for unspecified for solving the problem using another authn scheme comparable to Solid OIDC. It is added convenience. Implementation doesn't need to be blocked until we resolve that topic.

> * eP: We use cURLs use. It is valid for streaming HTTP as well. There are other valid reasons ot have it to make explicit that it is used. For HTTP at least, receive cURL, so don't have tho do authn. It is already there - useful to have it explicit so that NR knows how to connect to the notification channel. There are some previous efforts to have authn directly on the endpoint over websocket protocol. it'd be beneficial if websocket channel doesn't have cURL but it can also use different authn scheme that's explicitly set for the channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: We use cURLs. They are valid for streaming HTTP as well. There are other valid reasons to make explicit that it is used. For HTTP at least, receive cURL, so don't have to do authn. It is already there — useful to have it explicit so that NR knows how to connect to the notification channel. There are some previous efforts to have authn directly on the endpoint over websocket protocol. It'd be beneficial if websocket channel doesn't have cURL but can use different authn scheme that's explicitly set for the channel.
```

> * eP: In CSS, provides a package for some of products of classes in the Notifications Protocol. If Acme has is using CSS, they'd have an IdP built in part of CSS. They take advantage from all those pieces being together. That's not the case for other implementations so it is not the reliable way of doing it.
> * eP: In #504, NS is always acting as server-side client. CSS has the convenience for implicit --- it generates token without asking the user to authn/z. If implementations were to be separate, then all problems in 504 described would come to place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: In CSS, provides a package for some products of classes in the Notifications Protocol. If Acme is using CSS, they'd have an IdP built in as part of CSS. They take advantage of all those pieces being together. That's not the case for other implementations, so it is not the reliable way of doing it.
* eP: In ?repo?#504, NS is always acting as server-side client. CSS has implicit convenience — it generates token without asking the user to authn/z. If implementations were to be separate, then all problems described in ?repo?#504 would come to place.
```

* SC: {Summary of the shortcoming of Solid-OIDC for this picture}

> * eP: I'd like to understand if the token is used by NR .. what stops it from using it elsewhere?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: I'd like to understand if the token is used by NR ... what stops it from using it elsewhere?
```

* JM: Assuming-ly, the token receiver is same entity that subscribed to it. Is there case where the receiver wouldn't be the same entity?

> * JM: Can still constrain the token with multi-embedded credentials. Sign the token by the server, saying this is intended audience.. e.g., NS could generate a token put in the audience of the NR and send it over. No DPOP required. Then NR can't re-use it at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JM: Can still constrain the token with multi-embedded credentials. Sign the token by the server, saying this is intended audience, e.g., NS could generate a token, put in the audience of the NR, and send it over. No DPOP required. Then NR can't re-use it at all.
```

* eP: Constraining the audience.
* SC: Are we considering alternatives to move towards?

> * JM: As an implementer, just do cURL for now.. the trade-off is with cURL hs the same security-boundaries. The only ... NR to have something like UUID in the URL. Instead of having one nice URL - however they're receiving it. In the future we might want to also have new authn scheme so that NR can have URL setup instead of cURL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JM: As an implementer, just do cURL for now... The trade-off is that cURL has the same security-boundaries. The only ... NR to have something like UUID in the URL. Instead of having one nice URL — however they're receiving it. In the future we might want to also have new authn scheme so that NR can have URL setup instead of cURL.
```

* JM: Is cURL described in the current spec?

> * eP: metnions authn issue
> * eP: It is not presented to the user - used at runtime but not exposed. In Some systems, webhook for example, it can be copied. here it is in the subscription response but not to human interaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: mentions authn issue
* eP: It is not presented to the user — used at runtime but not exposed. In some systems, webhook for example, it can be copied. Here it is in the subscription response but not to human interaction.
```

* JM: As I understand it, the URL is response. That's the complex URL?
* eP: Yes.

> * JM: The developer for app receiving it, they wouldn't be able to setup an endpoint my/app/parameteruuid and feed into library. Not difficult but something to think about.
> * eP: If you compare to authn/z in place, with tokens, setting some access controls on the endpoint.. this might be easier ot have a lightweight receiver and have all this authn/z system. There is a tradeoff.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JM: The developer for app receiving it, they wouldn't be able to set up an endpoint `my/app/parameteruuid` and feed into library. Not difficult, but something to think about.
* eP: If you compare to authn/z in place, with tokens, setting some access controls on the endpoint... this might be easier to have a lightweight receiver and have all this authn/z system. There is a tradeoff.
```

> * JM: The solution to authn/z can be implemented in a stateless manner whereas cURLs need state maintained on the NR side. The NR needs to remember the id of the cURL during the subscription phase. Whereas if you use a token the authn is inherit in the token without needing to maintain state. Things from the implementation level. From a spec, cURL has fewer open questions.
> * eP: re state of the URL that needs to maintained, but if you talk about in the previous version of the Webhooks, if you have the sender in the response, you need to keep the sender, and add it to the ACL on the receiver. SubscriptionClient gets the sender, so that NR knows about it, and then when the notification comes, NR checks if it comes from NS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JM: The solution to authn/z can be implemented in a stateless manner, whereas cURLs need state maintained on the NR side. The NR needs to remember the ID of the cURL during the subscription phase, whereas if you use a token the authn is inherent in the token without needing to maintain state. Things from the implementation level. From a spec, cURL has fewer open questions.
* eP: re state of the URL, that needs to be maintained, but if you talk about the previous version of Webhooks, if you have the sender in the response, you need to keep the sender, and add it to the ACL on the receiver. SubscriptionClient gets the sender, so that NR knows about it, and then when the notification comes, NR checks if it comes from NS.
```

* JM: Depending on the biz logic, might need to maintain the state for what you're subscribed to. But that is not necessarily the UC. Can imagine UC where NR... as I receive it, I will then be able to validate this notification came from where it claims to come from, and do something with that data based on that.

> * JM: If you want to have a stateless app.. it is possible with the new authn scheme.. that token is cryptographically signed. But under cURL, I have a random uuid that came in.. and depending on my memory to say that "ah yes! this is something i subscribed to before". It is tiny things. Not hard for a client to maintain state but this is the trade off with cURL and entire new authn scheme.
> * JM: Is preventing spam within the purview of notification spec? Or just want a secure way to send it. Should spam be accepted or be concerned about DDOS attacks? Someone directs a bunch of notifications to one server in which case .. even under cURL under DDOS attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JM: If you want to have a stateless app... it is possible with the new authn scheme... that token is cryptographically signed. But under cURL, I have a random UUID that came in.. and depending on my memory to say that, "ah yes! this is something I subscribed to before". It is tiny things. Not hard for a client to maintain state but this is the trade off with cURL and entire new authn scheme.
* JM: Is preventing spam within the purview of notification spec? Or just want a secure way to send it? Should spam be accepted or be concerned about DDOS attacks? Someone directs a bunch of notifications to one server in which case ... even under cURL under DDOS attacks.
```

> * eP: We can track separate issue for spam because of nuances. If we can have a system that gets deployed and lots of spam going on we'd be hurt by that if we recommend. People will hate it.
> * JM: I guess that was one of hte considerations in the webhook specification. Traditionally with the webhook system someone will manually sets it up. But because this automatic setup we might need a way for new authn scheme.. own the domain for pointing the webhook to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: We can track separate issue for spam because of nuances. If we can have a system that gets deployed and lots of spam going on, we'd be hurt by that if we recommend. People will hate it.
* JM: I guess that was one of the considerations in the webhook specification. Traditionally with the webhook system, someone will manually sets it up. But because this is automatic setup, we might need a way for new authn scheme... own the domain for pointing the webhook to.
```
